Data Compliation
1. Download the datasets listed in the open data section
2. Use vlookup with community names to combine high school completion rate, median income, percentage of White students and percentage of African American students in 2016 for the analysis

Multiple Regression 
1. Click the data analysis tool on Microsoft Excel 
2. Select the Regression Option
3. Set the data in the x and y axis sections
    a. Set the y values as the high school graduation rate
    b. Set the x values as the median household income, the percentage of White students and the percentage of African American students
4. A multiple regression analysis will be generated in a new sheet

Simple Regression
1. Create a scatterplot using the data after selecting relevant columns
    a. Set high school graduation rate as the y variable
    b. Set the median household income as the x 
2. Add graph and axes titles
3. Add a trend line and the corresponding equation and r squared value
4. Repeat steps for high school graduation and percentage of African American students 

Correlation
1. Select all data
2. Click the data analysis tool on Microsoft Excel 
3. Select the Correlation Option
4. A correlation analysis will be generated in a new sheet

Cluster Analysis
1. Calculate the mean and standard deviations of high school completion rate, median income, percentage of White students, and percentage of African American students
2. Calculate the z scores of the variables in each community with the standardize function in Excel
3. Select 3 random integers between 1 and 55 as anchor nodes
4. Use vlookup to find the communities that correspond to the 3 anchor nodes
5. Similarly, use vlookup to find the corresponding z scores of each variables for the 3 anchor nodes
6. In new columns, use SUMXMY2 function to find the squared distances between z scores of each variable to each of the 3 anchor nodes
7. Find the minimum squared distance among those values with MIN function
8. Use the MATCH function to match the minimum squared distance with squared distance. This tells you which cluster it belongs to
9. calculate the sum of minimum squared distances
10. Go to data -> solver, set objective as the cell with minimum squared distances and select min in the line below
11. In the "by changing variable cells", select the cells with the 3 anchor nodes you picked
12. Click add to insert constraints for the variable cells. The constraints include the values of the variable cells being integers, larger than 1, and less than the total data points
13. Set the solving method as evolutionary. Click Options -> evolutionary and change the mutation rate to 0.5, then click solve to find the actual anchor nodes. Save these solved values in the cells
14. Copy the table with the original values, z scores, squared distances, and cluster anchor number to a new worksheet
15. Create a pivot table in a new worksheet. Drag cluster anchor number to rows, communities, all variables and all z scores of the variables to values. Communities value should be in count, and the others should be in averages
16. Create a bar graph for the average z scores of each cluster

